Welcome... to another episode of Shiloh Creek....Where the water runs slow, the friends look out for each other, and every story starts here — pondside — with me.
I'm Old Timber....The elephant elder....And today's story... is the morning a hummingbird tried to fix the meadow and accidentally made it a lake.
Today... I want to ask you something, little ones....A question the wise people in the Bible used to ask each other....What does it mean... to forgive somebody?...Especially when they really did mess it up....Especially when you are wet and cross....Listen carefully....The answer is in the story.
Now... gather round, little ones. Come close by the pond.
Old Timber!...Old Timber!...Is this the one with the BIG WATER?
BIG WATER!
BIG WATER IS THE BEST WATER!
Mm....Yes, my friends....It is the one with the big water....Settle in.
Now... settle in....Here we go.
Now, this was a couple of weeks back, on a bright soft morning in late summer when the grass was still warm from the day before, and the air smelled the way air smells after a warm night....A little like dust....A little like leaves....And in the middle of that quiet warm grass,...there was a hummingbird,...and the hummingbird had a NEW THING.
Now... you know our Zippy....Our Zippy does not have small ideas....She has BIG ones....Quick ones....Drawn-on-a-leaf ones....And this particular morning,...she had built something....A something with a handle....And a pipe....And a small wooden tap....A something that was meant to keep the meadow grass perfectly watered, on a perfectly even schedule, all summer.
She called it...the Hydra-Tron....The Three Thousand....Yes....I know....I just tell you what she called it.
And down at the pond,...the Mudpuppies were already up,...already wet,...already cheerful....As they are.
Now, this is where things got interesting...
And over hopped Bongo the bear cub, with his usual cheerful crash — paws first, questions later....He thumped down beside the Hydra-Tron and announced —
[excited] Zippy!...You built a THING!...A whole thing!...With pipes!...I got this....Whatever it is — I got this.
And Zippy the hummingbird darted in, going so fast she was three places at once....She squeaked,
[excited] Bongo!...Okay — okay — listen — the Hydra-Tron Three Thousand is — wait — wait — I just had SEVEN ideas about how to demonstrate it — number one, I open the valve and the grass gets watered, number two, I open the valve TWICE FAST and the grass gets watered FASTER, number three —
And high in the branches of the big old oak, Garingo the parrot was already settled with the air of a creature with NOTHING ELSE TO DO and ALL OF HIS FEATHERS AVAILABLE....He called down — graciously — theatrically —
Friends!...I have CHOSEN, this morning, to bear witness....From up HERE....Where the OBSERVATION is finest....Proceed, Zippy....Proceed with your THING.
And at the edge of the meadow, half-tucked behind a fern frond bigger than her head, was Fern the fawn,...quiet and steady, the way she has been since the storm....She had come out to watch.
...Hello, Zippy....Hello, Bongo....I came to see the Hydra-Tron.
[excited] Okay!...EVERYONE is here!...Gather around — alright — I am pulling the lever — I am pulling — I am — pulling — the LEVER —
And Zippy pulled the lever....And the wooden tap turned....And the pipe...did exactly what the pipe was supposed to do.
Mm....Wait. ...I just told you a small lie....The pipe did NOT do exactly what the pipe was supposed to do....The pipe...did something ELSE.
What the pipe did,...with great enthusiasm,...was POP off the side of the Hydra-Tron entirely....And the water — the water that was supposed to gently water the grass — went,...instead,...everywhere.
[excited] No — no — no — that's not — that is NOT what was supposed to happen — hold on — I can fix this — wait — wait — where is the OTHER PIPE —
[excited] Zippy!...I got this!...I'll dig a CHANNEL — I'll send the water somewhere ELSE — everyone — stand back — STAND BACK — I am DIGGING —
And — yes — that is the SOUND of a bear cub digging a channel to redirect water....And — also — that is the sound of the channel...filling up with MORE water....And the meadow,...by this point,...was a little less meadow,...and a little more pond.
BEHOLD!...The meadow...has BECOME....A...POND.
And from the meadow path,...slow as ever,...arrived Shelly the tortoise — wise old Shelly — who had been on her way to look at the new contraption for some time....She walked into the new pond,...looked down at her own feet,...looked up at the rest of us,...and said —
...Mm....Yes....That is...water.
...Yes....It is.
FRIENDS!...DOWN AT THE POND END!...THE WATER...IS COMING DOWN HERE!...IT IS THE BEST WATER WE HAVE EVER HAD!
BEST WATER!
BEST WATER WE HAVE EVER HAD IN THE HISTORY OF WATER!
And down at the pond end of the meadow,...if you could call it the meadow anymore,...three Mudpuppies were having, by their own report,...the finest morning of their lives....As Mudpuppies do.
[excited] Friends — listen — I am up to my KNEES — I am up to my — I am — up to most of my knees — Zippy — the channel — the channel went the wrong WAY —
[excited] I — I know — I know — okay — alright — I just need to find the OTHER end of the OTHER pipe — there are TWO pipes — wait — wait — there are FOUR pipes — why are there four pipes — I only made TWO —
Zippy....I have OBSERVED something....From up HERE....The water is...still coming....Out of the THING....Quite a lot of it....I felt you should know.
[excited] Zippy....FRIEND....Look at the GRASS....The grass is — the grass is UNDERWATER....Zippy — listen — you BROKE the meadow.
...Mm....Yes....I'm afraid Bongo's right....The meadow has — quite a lot of pond in it now....Quite a lot.
...The MEADOW....The very MEADOW....Where I have, on many fine afternoons, perched and OBSERVED....It is GONE....It is, I would say,...currently a lake.
[excited] I — I — I know — I know — I — okay — alright — the valve — I — I have to find — I have to — I —
And right then,...right there in the middle of what had been a meadow,...Zippy stopped....She stopped moving....She stopped speaking....She stopped buzzing....She went and sat down...on a stone....A small stone....A stone with water lapping at the sides of it.
Now... with the rest of the friends standing around the edges of the new pond, looking at the water,...and at Zippy,...and not quite knowing what to say next,...something quiet happened....The kind of quiet that the meadow makes,...when the meadow is suddenly mostly water.
Our Zippy,...sitting on her stone with the water lapping at the sides of her small wings,...was not buzzing....Zippy is the buzz — most days....But today,...with one small drop of water hanging on the very tip of her beak that she had not noticed,...with mud already drying on her tiny toes,...with the pipe she had been so proud of lying broken next to her feet,...she was just...still.
And inside her chest,...somewhere underneath the buzz that was always there,...was a small heavy thing....Not a sad thing....A heavier thing....Like a stone she'd swallowed by accident....A stone that wanted to come out as a word....And the word,...the dear thing,...was a hard one.
Mm....Watching her there,...with the friends a little way off, mostly wet,...mostly cross,...mostly waiting for somebody to say something first —...I remembered a line from the Bible....About forgiving....About what forgiving really is.
And then,...from the edge of where the new pond began,...somebody small...took a soft step forward.
...Zippy.
...Fern....I — I broke the meadow.
...I know.
...Fern....Did you — did you just sound like Old Timber?...That was — that was a whole Old Timber sentence.
...Mm....It's catching....Old Timber rubs off.
...Zippy....I would like to OBSERVE,...from down here,...where the observation is now considerably less fine,...that...your THING did not work.
...I know....I — I know, Garingo....I made it too complicated....I made it...too FAST....It should have been smaller.
...Zippy....The thing you wanted to do....The watering....It was a kind thing....You wanted the grass to be alright....That's a kind thing to start with.
...I'm sorry....I'm sorry....I — I was so excited about being CLEVER....And I didn't — I didn't think about you being WET....And I — I was scared just now....I was scared you'd all never let me — let me invent again.
[excited]...Zippy....Of course we'll let you invent again....Of course we will....I — I am up to my KNEES in water,...and I still want you to invent things....Just maybe smaller things next time.
...Mm....I forgive you, Zippy....Of course I do....The meadow can be a pond for a while....It has been a pond before, you know....A very long time ago....Before any of us....The meadow was once a lake.
...And I forgive you too, Zippy....I am — I am told,...by reliable sources,...that being forgiving is...a fine quality....I have read about it.
And there at the edge of the new pond — with Fern who had spoken first and Bongo who had splashed first and Shelly who had arrived last and Garingo who was, as ever, OBSERVING — bless his bright feathers — our Zippy,...the dear little engineer,...took a small breath....And let out the heavy thing in her chest.
...Thank you....Thank you, friends....Okay....Right....Now we have to — we have to close the valve....Before any more water comes out.
And so the friends waded — slowly, carefully, because the meadow was very full of water — over to where the Hydra-Tron Three Thousand stood, half-broken, with one small wooden valve at the top of its pipe, still happily letting more water out into the field....And Zippy,...with Bongo's paws steadying the pipe from the side and Fern's quiet head right beside her,...reached up,...and turned the valve.
And the water...stopped....Just like that.
[excited]...Friends....Look....The meadow....It is still mostly a pond....But it is not GETTING any ponder.
...Mm....A small breath....A whole path.
Now... after all that —...once the valve was closed,...once the friends had waded carefully back to drier ground,...once the Mudpuppies had been invited to keep their new puddle as a gift —...we sat down together on the high edge of the meadow, where the grass was still warm and dry,...and we looked out over the new pond.
And I asked them — friends, what do you think it was, in the end, that made it work?
...I — I think it was when you all said yes....When I said sorry....And you all said yes....I — I didn't know how heavy that word was....Until I said it.
[excited]...I think...I think it was when Fern said the kind thing first....Before anybody else did....She said Zippy was being kind to start with....And that made it easier for the rest of us.
...I think it was that Zippy didn't mean it....The mess....She meant the watering....The mess was the accident....I — I think forgiving is when you can tell those two apart.
...I think...I think it was that the small one stopped talking....And just SAT.....And then SAID the small word....I would not, normally, have noticed....But I — I am LEARNING to notice.
...Mm....Forgiveness is the meadow being a pond...for a while....And no one keeping a list about it.
...Hm....Now... isn't that something?...Funny how it took a flood... for them to hear what the small one had to say....And funny how the small one,...this time,...was not the same small one as last time.
And that, my little ones, is how I remember it....The morning a hummingbird made a lake of the meadow....And the friends made a pond of the lake....And the friends made a friend...of the hummingbird again.
Now, before you go —...the Mudpuppies have something they very much want to tell you....They have a — well —...we'll see what they have, won't we....The dear silly creatures.
MUDPUPPY!...MINUTES!...IS!...HAPPENING!...NOW!
AND TODAY...WE!...HAVE!...A SPECIAL EPISODE!
BECAUSE TODAY!...WE ARE!...DOING IT!...FROM A POND!...THAT WAS!...A MEADOW!...THIS MORNING!
AND TODAY!...WE WILL!...DISCUSS!...A WORD!...WHICH IS!...FORGIVENESS!
FORGIVENESS!
I — I — I forgot what we were discussing.
FORGIVENESS, SPLISH....THE TOPIC WAS FORGIVENESS....WE WERE DISCUSSING IT THREE SECONDS AGO.
FORGIVENESS!...AND ALSO!...THE POND!...IS WONDERFUL!
AND ALSO!...THE BEST POND!...THE BEST POND THERE!...EVER WAS!...OF ALL OF THE PONDS!
SPLISH....SPLASH....FORGIVENESS....WE ARE DISCUSSING FORGIVENESS....NOT THE POND....NOT PONDS....NOT THE GREAT NEW POND THAT REPLACED THE MEADOW THIS MORNING....FORGIVENESS.
FORGIVENESS!...IS WHEN!...SOMEBODY!...DOES A!...A THING!...AND YOU SAY!...IT IS!...OKAY!...EVEN THOUGH!...YOU ARE!...A BIT!...WET!
AND ALSO!...YOU GET TO!...HAVE A POND!
MUDPUPPY MINUTES!...IS!...COMPLETED!...GOODBYE!
GOODBYE!
GOODBYE TO THE POND TOO!
...Mm....The dear silly creatures....They got there, in their way....Splash said it best....Forgiveness is when somebody does a thing, and you say it is okay, even though you are a bit wet....That'll do.
[excited] Old Timber —...what did we learn today?
Mm....We learned, my little ones... that forgiving is when somebody makes a real mess of things,...and you let the mess stop mattering....You don't keep score....That's all forgiving is....Just — letting it not-matter anymore.
And there's a line from the Bible, little ones....From the gospel of Matthew —...an ancient story from the Bible —...where someone asked Jesus...how many times you should forgive somebody....Seven times?...And Jesus said:...not seven times....Seventy times seven....Which is just a way of saying — ...don't keep score.
And that's what the friends did this morning....The meadow is still a pond....Zippy still made it....The morning still happened....But nobody is keeping a list about it....And that, little ones,...that is forgiving.
[excited]...Old Timber?...What — what does that LOOK like?...In an actual day?...For somebody who is listening right now?
Mm....Well, little one,...this week,...if somebody breaks something of yours —...a crayon,...a tower of blocks,...a thing you were really hoping for —...and they say sorry —...try Zippy's lesson....Forgiving doesn't mean it didn't hurt....It means...you let it stop mattering....Try saying...'it's okay'....Try meaning it....And then —...and then go and find something you can build together.
Until the next breeze brings us together, little ones....Be forgiving out there.
See you next time... somewhere in Shiloh Creek.